I don't have that many series/movies I would call my 'comfort media'. There were some enjoyable pieces that I don't regret diving into (like anime Mob Psycho 100, Everyting, Everywhere, All at once, Disney's The Owl House, The Good Place, Fleabag, Hamilton, etc.), but I haven't wanted to rewatch them yet. I experience new media rarely and I don't usually want to postpone this by spending (wasting) my time on something I've already watched. So this is why I want to understand how is comedy series Brooklyn 9-9 any different?

Brooklyn 9-9 is an HBO series starring Andy Samberg as an NYPD detective Jake Peralta (an unofficial main character) in a police precinct 9-9 in Brooklyn. The premise is simple: in the first episode the precinct welcomes their new captain Raymond Holt, an openly gay african-american. Raymond starts gaining respect from the crew and becomes a part of what makes this precinct feel like a real family. The main focus in the series are the team's relationships and their growth as people. For example Jake's main character arc is becoming more mature compared to his almost childish behavior in early seasons. Of course there are reoccurring plot-lines and plots streched for several episodes about external evil/system that they fight, but they are relatively short and minor compared to time and effort put into developing characters. The biggest plot lines the show has are about people's relationships and their personal goals - like Jake and the other detective Amy Santiago getting together and then her becoming an officer, or detective Rosa Diaz coming out as bisexual to the crew. Now, let's think why this show feels different for me?

First of all, this is a really popular show. I am certainly not the only one who enjoys it and finds it comforting. The writers did a great job at writing characters relatable and we as an audience want them to have a happy ending. So in my opinion the first reason is a good script, or rather well-written characters. Episodes vary of course, there are 9 seasons of the show, they can't be all perfect, but even the bad episodes can sink into your heart because of a minor moment between characters or a joke someone said.

This leads me to the second reason - the show's sense of humour. It isn't outrageous, insulting or vulgar just for the sake of being vulgar. It is deeply rooted in characters' interactions and their traits which is the best comedy and not the smartest revelation I could have. I saw people online critique B99 for making some things laughable which shouldn't have been (like Jake 'clearly having ADHD and everyone making fun of him because of that') but I am not sure if these allegations sometimes have a ground.

The third reason is the length of the series. As I said, B99 is relatively long so that means we might as well forget some funny or meaningful moments the characters experienced in the season 1 while already watching season 8, and thus wanting to rewatch the show (or at least this is what I thought when I was watching late seasons).

The last thought I have is that the world the show happens in is very similar to our but not the same. It feels safer, kinder in some ways. This is why people accuse B99 of cop-aganda - in the show the police precinct is pictured having very kind and responsible people who do their job for the public, don't abuse their power and are nearly the opposite of how the public, particularly in USA, views the people of this profession. So the world in B99 being a better version of ours is one more reason to feel comfort while watching it. Kind of like Parks and Recreations where they take a similar view on the regional politicians and the troubles they face.

Reflecting back on what I wrote I understand that almost everything I said can be said about other series. Welp, guess I just like this series and its characters and envy that they live their lives happily.