Love, art and stories: decoded | The Age of A.I.

What is love and what defines art? Humans have theorized, debated, and argued over these questions for centuries. As researchers become closer and closer to boiling these concepts down to a science, A.I. projects become closer to becoming alternatives for romantic companions and artists in their own right.


I've just watched documentary on AI and the ways it can influence our perception of love and art or change our society in general. The video consists of 5 parts: introduction with Robert Downey Jr., 3 main parts, each revealing one of the aspects of the debate - love, art and problem-solving - and a closing scene.

Video focuses on a somewhat old and popular question - can Artificial Intelligence perform creativity, empathy and consiousness on a merely human level? Of course opinions vary among people - some find it intriguing that a machine can communicate with a person and even become their lover, but some excepct nothing good from this initiative.
This is, by the way, the first story told in documentary.

There is a group of inventors which creates realistic robotic dolls and recently they've begun implementing Machine Learning in their models. Robot speaks with you using phrases which are statistically said more often to suit your feeling. It means that you could speak with a sensitive beautiful robot made by your backlog - aka create your own lover. 

And this is where my I-don't-like-this feeling awakes.
I think, that the "true love" can be experienced for a person with their own flaws and opinions - not for someone or something who has no self-consiousness and is only being suitable for you. Even if we consider people experiencing troubles with human communication this isn't the right solution for them. Maybe going to robo-powered therapy could help (which is a very interesting use of AI). 

Then, the second theme is art. We meet a director, who creates his movies following AI-generated scripts. These movies are posted on YouTube and free to watch. Interesting thing the director says, is that filming such videos is a very helpful exercise to learn imagining written scene from different perspective. For example, thre was a line "Boba leaned to Boba" (Boba is the main character of a movie) - and the director came up with the idea that actor, who played Boba should lean to the mirror.

Obviously, any sort of art generated by Machine Learning algorythm wasn't made to express machine's feeling - it doesn't have them. But interestingly enough this type of creation is still considered to be art, as long as it makes US, viewers, feel something. So I don't have anything against using AI in creation process.

At this moment the narrator says that, surprisingly, is easier for AI to "emulate" creativity, than make a decision. To illustrate this statement narrator mentions driving as a human activity and that, in fact, it has a lot of nuances. 

Then we see several engineer teams who work on developing self-driving race cars. And mainly this part was very boring except one detail that one scientist, who works on self-driving cars, said. He mentioned that until we reach an error-rate of car's performances less than 1%, we can't let these cars ride on the streets, because thousands of cars, which have 1% chance of malfunctioning, is a very high risk.

All in all, I can say only that we can use Machine Learning in several spheres, except for replacing people in human communications. Let's see where AI leads us!